Interest Rate: shall mean, for any Interest Period, (x) the Spread plus the
Benchmark for such Interest Period or (y) when applicable pursuant to this Agreement or any other
Loan Document, the Default Rate. 
Spread: shall mean 4.75%. 
Benchmark: shall mean, initially, the London interbank offered rate for U.S. dollars
with a 1-month tenor; provided that if a Benchmark Transition Event or an Early Opt-in Election,
as applicable, and its related Benchmark Replacement Date have occurred with respect to the thencurrent Benchmark, then “Benchmark” means the applicable Benchmark Replacement to the
extent that such Benchmark Replacement has replaced such prior benchmark rate pursuant to
Section 2.10 hereof. Lender shall determine the Benchmark (and the applicable Reference Time)
as in effect from time to time, and each such determination by Lender shall be conclusive and
binding absent manifest error. While the Benchmark remains the London interbank offered rate
for U.S. dollars with a 1-month tenor, Lender shall determine the same in accordance with the
defined term “LIBOR.” 
LIBOR: shall mean, with respect to any Interest Period, a rate per annum (expressed
as a percentage per annum rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest one hundredth (1/100th)
of one percent (1%)) for deposits in U.S. Dollars for a one (1) month period that appears on Reuters
Screen LIBOR01 Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on the date that is two (2) Business Days
prior to the first day of such Interest Period. If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen
LIBOR01 Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on the date that is two (2) Business Days prior to
the first day of such Interest Period, Lender shall request the principal London office of any four
(4) prime banks in the London interbank market selected by Lender to provide such banks’
quotations of the rates at which deposits in U.S. Dollars are offered by such banks at approximately
11:00 a.m., London time, to prime banks in the London interbank market for a one (1) month
period commencing on the date that is two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest
Period and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in the relevant market
at the relevant time. If at least two (2) such offered quotations are so provided, LIBOR will be the
arithmetic mean of such quotations (expressed as a percentage and rounded upwards, if necessary,
to the nearest one hundredth (1/100th) of one percent (1%)). If fewer than two (2) such quotations
are so provided, Lender will request major banks in New York City selected by Lender to quote
such banks’ rates for loans in U.S. Dollars to leading European banks as of approximately 11:00
a.m., New York City time, on the date that is two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such
Interest Period. If at least two (2) such rates are so provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean
of such rates (expressed as a percentage and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest one
hundredth (1/100th) of one percent (1%)). If fewer than two (2) rates are so provided, then LIBOR
will be LIBOR used to determine the LIBOR during the immediately preceding Interest Period.
LIBOR shall be determined conclusively by Lender absent manifest error. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in no event shall LIBOR be an amount less than the Index Floor. 
Index Floor: shall mean one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum. 